Changelog
=========

Major work such as new features, bug fixes, feature deprecations, and other
breaking changes should be noted here. It should be more concise than `git log`.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

[Unreleased]
------------

### Added

- Open Enclave SDK works in Windows
   - Build using Visual Studio 2017's CMake Support
   - Build in x64 Native Prompt using Ninja
- Function table/id based ecall/ocall dispatching
   - oeedger8r generates ecall tables and ocall tables
   - Dispatching based on function-id (index into table)
   - oeedger8r generates `oe_create_foo_enclave` function for `foo.edl`
   - oe-gdb allows attaching to a host that is already running
- oe-gdb allows attaching to a host that is already running
- Added Quote Enclave Identity validation into oe_verify_report implementation
- Added OE SDK internal logging mechanism
- Support for thread local variables
   - Both GNU __thread and C++11 thread_local
   - Both hardware and simulation mode
   - Local-Exec and Initial-Exec thread-local storage models
- Added v2 versions of the following APIs that instead of passing in buffers now
  return a buffer that needs to be freed via an associated free method. OE_API_VERSION
  needs to be set to 2 to pick up the versions. The mentioned APIs have a *_V1 and *_V2
  version that the below versions map to detending on the OE_API_VERSION.
   - oe_get_report, free report buffer via oe_free_report
   - oe_get_target_info, free target_info_buffer via oe_free_target_info
   - oe_get_seal_key, free key_buffer and key_info via oe_free_seal_key
   - oe_get_seal_key_by_policy, free key_buffer and key_info via oe_free_seal_key
- Added new enumeration for enclave type parameter of oe_create_enclave. Now use
  OE_ENCLAVE_TYPE_AUTO to have the enclave appropriate to your built environment
  be chosen automatically. For instance, building intel binaries will select SGX
  automatically, where on ARM it will pick trustzone.
- Added new package called `open-enclave-hostverify` that allows verification of
  quotes on non-SGX machines. The package contains the neccessary libraries
  and a single include file called `host_verify.h` that has the function
  `oe_verify_remote_report`.

### Changed

- `oe_create_enclave` takes two additional parameters: `ocall_table` and
  `ocall_table_size`.
- Update mbed TLS library to version 2.7.9.
- Update musl libc to version 1.1.20.
- Update LLVM libcxx to version 7.0.0.
   - Some libcxx headers (e.g. `<string>`) now use C++11 template features and
     may require compiling with the `-std=c++11` option when building with GCC.
- Update minimum required CMake version for building from source to 3.13.1.
- Update minimum required C++ standard for building from source to C++14.

### Deprecated

- String based `ocalls`/`ecalls`, `OE_ECALL`, and `OE_OCALL` macros.
- OE_ENCLAVE_TYPE_UNDEFINED was removed and replaced with OE_ENCLAVE_TYPE_AUTO.

[v0.4.1] - 2018-12-21
---------------------

v0.4.1 contains a small fix to work with Intel's new ISV version bump.

### Changed

- This allows the OE SDK to continue to support reports signed by QE SVN=1,
  and at the same time also allow a newer QE SVN (greater than 1) during the
  oe_verify_report process.

[v0.4.0] - 2018-10-08
---------------------

v0.4.0 is the first public preview release, with numerous breaking changes from v0.1.0
as listed below.

### Added

- Support building Open Enclave SDK apps with Clang-7.
- Support Intel EDL for host & enclave stub generation with oeedger8r tool.
- Support full SGX DCAP remote report (quote) revocation.
- Expand documentation for running on different configurations.
- Add pkg-config files for building Open Enclave apps in C/C++ for GCC or Clang.
- Add data sealing sample.
- Add `oe_call_host_by_address()` to allow enclaves to make OCALLs by callback pointer.
- Add `oe_get_enclave()` to obtain enclave handle to return to host.
- Add `oe_get_target_info()` to support SGX local attestation.
- Add CMake export configuration to SDK (experimental).

### Changed

- Standardize naming convention on new [Development Guide](docs/DevelopmentGuide.md).
- Standardize Open Enclave APIs to use `size_t` type for buffer sizes.
- Standardize Open Enclave APIs to always clear output parameters on error return.
- Change report type detection logic.
   - Reports generated by Open Enclave are no longer transparently usable by Intel SGX SDK.
- Change `oe_identity.authorID` field to `oe_identity.signerID`.
- Clean up thread local storage on return from ECALL.
- Refactor liboecore and liboeenclave dependency.
   - All enclave apps must now link liboeenclave.
- Refactor liboecore and liboelibc dependency.
   - All enclave apps should call libc for C functions instead.
- Break up remote attestation sample into 4 separate samples.
- Simplify `oe_get_report()` so it doesn't accept unused `reportdata` on host side.
- Reduce the set of `oe_result` values returned.
- Update mbedTLS library to version 2.7.5.
- Update LLVM libcxx to version 6.0.1.
- Update MUSL libc to version 1.1.19.
- Update libunwind to version 1.3.

### Deprecated

- Deprecate oe_call_host and oe_call_enclave methods in favor of EDL generated interfaces.

### Removed

- Block re-entrant ECALLs. A host servicing an OCALL cannot make an ECALL back into the enclave.
- Remove oe_thread functions. All enclave apps should use libc/libcxx thread functions instead.
- Remove API reference from SDK package. Refer to https://openenclave.io/apidocs/v0.4 instead.
- Remove outdated documents including DesignOverview.pdf.
- Remove oegen, oedump and oeelf tools.
- Remove CMake-based samples.
- Replace test signing PEM files with runtime generated test keys.

### Fixed

- Add appropriate validations for ELF64 in Open Enclave loader.
- Expand libc/libcxx test coverage.

### Security

- Build all libraries with Clang-7 Spectre-1 mitigation (-x86-speculative-load-hardening).
- Update code to use safe CRT and secure memset/zero memory methods.
- Fix integer overflows and add arithmetic boundary checks in Open Enclave runtime.
- Fix cert chain validation during Open Enclave quote verification.

[v0.1.0] - 2018-06-15 (YANKED)
------------------------------

Initial private preview release, no longer supported.

[Unreleased]: https://github.com/microsoft/openenclave/compare/v0.4.0...HEAD
[v0.4.0]: https://github.com/microsoft/openenclave/compare/v0.1.0...v0.4.0
[v0.1.0]: https://github.com/microsoft/openenclave/compare/beb546f...v0.1.0
