host/README.md, before:

host
====

This directory contains the sources for the oehost library. This library
supports creating, invoking, and terminating enclaves.

# Enclave Layout

The host creates an enclave image with the following layout (for details, see
see [create.c](create.c)).

        +----------------------------------------+
        | Text pages:                            |
        |     _start() - enclave entry point     |
        |     oe_exit() - enclave entry routine  |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | Relocation pages:                      |
        |     (contains data relocations)        |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | ECALL address pages:                   |
        {     (ECALL virtual adddresses)         |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | Data pages:                            |
        |     __oe_numPages                      |
        |     __oe_virtualBaseAddr               |
        |     __oe_BaseRelocPage                 |
        |     __oe_numRelocPages                 |
        |     __oe_BaseECallPage                 |
        |     __oe_numECallPages                 |
        |     __oe_BaseHeapPage                  |
        |     __oe_numHeapPages                  |
        +----------------------------------------+ <--+
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Stack pages                            |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Thread Control Structure (TCS) Page    |    |
        |     state: 0 = available               |    |
        |     oentry - vaddress of _start()      |    |- Thread context
        |     fsbase - vaddress of FS segment    |    |  (one per TCS)
        |     gsbase - vaddress of GS segment    |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Set Asside Area (SSA Slot 1) Page      |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Set Asside Area (SSA Slot 2) Page      |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Segment Page: (FS or GS)               |    |
        |     (contains thread data structure)   |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Thread specific data (TSD) Page        |    |
        +----------------------------------------+ <--+
        | Padding Pages (must be a power of two) |
        +----------------------------------------+

Commit message:

The stack guard for enclave on SGX is turned on.
This implementation makes use of the Stack Smashing Protector from the compiler. The key measurement is putting a canary(copied from fs:0x28) on the stack, then check the value of canary before exit.
To use the stack guard already defined in thread data, the thread data td is moved from GS page to FS page. Thus the first 256 bytes of FS page is also reserved from thread specific data in FS page.
One test unit stack_smashing_protector is added, which includes stack smashing protection test and also thread specific data test.

Signed-off-by: Alvin Chen <alvin@chen.asia>

host/README.md, after:

host
====

This directory contains the sources for the oehost library. This library
supports creating, invoking, and terminating enclaves.

# Enclave Layout

The host creates an enclave image with the following layout (for details, see
see [create.c](create.c)).

        +----------------------------------------+
        | Text pages:                            |
        |     _start() - enclave entry point     |
        |     oe_exit() - enclave entry routine  |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | Relocation pages:                      |
        |     (contains data relocations)        |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | ECALL address pages:                   |
        {     (ECALL virtual adddresses)         |
        +----------------------------------------+
        | Data pages:                            |
        |     __oe_numPages                      |
        |     __oe_virtualBaseAddr               |
        |     __oe_BaseRelocPage                 |
        |     __oe_numRelocPages                 |
        |     __oe_BaseECallPage                 |
        |     __oe_numECallPages                 |
        |     __oe_BaseHeapPage                  |
        |     __oe_numHeapPages                  |
        +----------------------------------------+ <--+
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Stack pages                            |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Thread Control Structure (TCS) Page    |    |
        |     state: 0 = available               |    |
        |     oentry - vaddress of _start()      |    |- Thread context
        |     fsbase - vaddress of FS segment    |    |  (one per TCS)
        |     gsbase - vaddress of GS segment    |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Set Asside Area (SSA Slot 1) Page      |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Set Asside Area (SSA Slot 2) Page      |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Guard page                             |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Thread local storage                   |    |
        +----------------------------------------+    |
        | Segment Page: (FS)                     |    |
        | (contains thread data structure        |    |
        | and Thread specific data (TSD))        |    |
        +----------------------------------------+ <--+
        | Padding Pages (must be a power of two) |
        +----------------------------------------+
The thread data (td) object is always populated at the start of the
FS segment, thus FS segment regiter points to td.

The existing Windows SGX enclave debugger finds the start of the thread data
by assuming that it is located at the start of the GS segment. i.e. it adds the
enclave base address and the offset to the GS segment stored in TCS.OGSBASGX.
OE SDK uses the FS segment for this purpose and has no separate use for the
GS register, so we point it at the FS segment to preserve the Windows debugger
behavior.
