docs/GettingStartedDocs/Windows_windbg.md, before:

# Debugging ELF Enclaves Using WinDbg Preview

This document provides a brief overview of how to debug Open Enclave applications using WinDbg Preview.

# Install WinDbg Preview

WinDbg Preview can be installed from the Windows Store on a Win 10 machine.

[![WinDbg Preview](images/WinDbgPreview.png)](http://aka.ms/WinDbgPreview)

WinDbg Preview supports debugging OpenEnclave applications since [1.0.1908.30002]( https://aka.ms/WinDbgWhatsNew#10190830002)

Currently WinDbg Preview can be installed only on a Win 10 machine from the Windows Store.
Join the github [discussion](https://github.com/microsoftfeedback/WinDbg-Feedback/issues/19) if you want WinDbg Preview to be installed anywhere.

In order to use WinDbg Preview on any Windows machine, copy the contents of `C:\Program Files\WindowsApps\Microsoft.WinDbg_*build*` 
to your target machine, and launch the `DbgX.Shell` application.

# Building Your Open Enclave Application

Open an instance of x64 Native Tools Command Prompt

![x64 Native Tools Command Prompt](images/WinDbgNativeToolsPrompt.png)

Change to the directory containing your Open Enclave Application. Make a build folder and configure your application as shown below by defining the `OpenEnclave_DIR` and `NUGET_PACKAGE_PATH` configuration arguments.


```cmd
cd YourApplicationFolder
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G Ninja -DOpenEnclave_DIR=your-open-enclave-install-path\lib\openenclave\cmake -DNUGET_PACKAGE_PATH=your-openenclave-nuget-packages-path\prereqs\nuget ..
```

![Configure](images/WinDbgConfigure.png)


Build your application by running `ninja` and run your application by executing `ninja run`.

![Build And Run](images/WinDbgBuildAndRun.png)

# Debugging Your Open Enclave Application

Launch `DbgX.Shell` application. Click on `File-> Start debugging -> Launch executable(advanced)` and specify the program name arguments (path to the enclave) and working directory.

![Launch Executable](images/WinDbgLaunchExecutable.png)

Open your host application and put a breakpoing on the source line that creates the enclave and continue execution till that line is hit.

![Host Breakpoint](images/WinDbgHostBreakpoint.png)


Step over the line that creates the enclave.


Open your enclave source code, put a breakpoint and continue executin till that breakpoint is hit.

![Enclave Breakpoint](images/WinDbgEnclaveBreakpoint.png)


Explore various WinDbg commands and features.


## Known Issues

These issues are being worked on and will be fixed in an upcoming update.

- The debug cursor often jumps to the start of the file while debugging within an enclave. Stepping again should take the cursor to the correct location.

Commit message:

Add information on oedebugrt.dll

docs/GettingStartedDocs/Windows_windbg.md, after:

# Debugging ELF Enclaves Using WinDbg Preview

This document provides a brief overview of how to debug Open Enclave applications using WinDbg Preview.

# Install WinDbg Preview

WinDbg Preview can be installed from the Windows Store on a Win 10 machine.

[![WinDbg Preview](images/WinDbgPreview.png)](http://aka.ms/WinDbgPreview)

WinDbg Preview supports debugging OpenEnclave applications since [1.0.1908.30002]( https://aka.ms/WinDbgWhatsNew#10190830002)

Currently WinDbg Preview can be installed only on a Win 10 machine from the Windows Store.
Join the github [discussion](https://github.com/microsoftfeedback/WinDbg-Feedback/issues/19) if you want WinDbg Preview to be installed anywhere.

In order to use WinDbg Preview on any Windows machine, copy the contents of `C:\Program Files\WindowsApps\Microsoft.WinDbg_*build*` 
to your target machine, and launch the `DbgX.Shell` application.

# Building Your Open Enclave Application

Open an instance of x64 Native Tools Command Prompt

![x64 Native Tools Command Prompt](images/WinDbgNativeToolsPrompt.png)

Change to the directory containing your Open Enclave Application. Make a build folder and configure your application as shown below by defining the `OpenEnclave_DIR` and `NUGET_PACKAGE_PATH` configuration arguments.


```cmd
cd YourApplicationFolder
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G Ninja -DOpenEnclave_DIR=your-open-enclave-install-path\lib\openenclave\cmake -DNUGET_PACKAGE_PATH=your-openenclave-nuget-packages-path\prereqs\nuget ..
```

![Configure](images/WinDbgConfigure.png)


Build your application by running `ninja` and run your application by executing `ninja run`.

![Build And Run](images/WinDbgBuildAndRun.png)

# Debugging Your Open Enclave Application

Note that to debug an Open Enclave application under windbg, `oedebugrt.dll`(found in `your-open-enclave-install-path\bin`) needs to be in the same folder as the host executable.
In the samples, this is automatically achieved via a call to the `copy_oedebugrt_target` cmake module. Please see the Helloworld sample's [CMakeLists.txt](../../samples/helloworld/CMakeLists.txt) for an example of how to call `copy_oedebugrt_target`.

Launch `DbgX.Shell` application. Click on `File-> Start debugging -> Launch executable(advanced)` and specify the program name arguments (path to the enclave) and working directory.

![Launch Executable](images/WinDbgLaunchExecutable.png)

Open your host application and put a breakpoing on the source line that creates the enclave and continue execution till that line is hit.

![Host Breakpoint](images/WinDbgHostBreakpoint.png)


Step over the line that creates the enclave.


Open your enclave source code, put a breakpoint and continue executin till that breakpoint is hit.

![Enclave Breakpoint](images/WinDbgEnclaveBreakpoint.png)


Explore various WinDbg commands and features.


## Known Issues

These issues are being worked on and will be fixed in an upcoming update.

- The debug cursor often jumps to the start of the file while debugging within an enclave. Stepping again should take the cursor to the correct location.
