[Index](index.md)

---
# OE_GetReportForRemoteAttestation()

Get a report for use in remote attestation.

## Syntax

    OE_Result OE_GetReportForRemoteAttestation(const uint8_t reportData[OE_REPORT_DATA_SIZE], void *report, size_t *reportSize)
## Description 

This function creates a report to be used in remote attestation. The report shall contain the data given by the **reportData** parameter. The following steps are performed:



- Calls into the host to request that the AESM service initialize the quote. This step obtains **target information** for the enclave that will eventually sign the quote (the Intel(R) quote enclave).

- Executes the ENCLU.EREPORT instruction to generate the report, passing it the **target information** and **report data**. This instruction fills in the **report** output parameter.

The next step is to pass the newly created report to the host so it can get a quote for this report from the Intel(R) quote enclave. See the [OE_GetQuote()](host_8h_a0d2e9102af51fc63e9895612310392f5_1a0d2e9102af51fc63e9895612310392f5.md) host function for further details.

If the *reportSize* parameter is too small, this function resets it to the required size and returns OE_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL.

 **Caution:**



## Parameters

#### reportData

The report data that will be included in the report.

#### report

The buffer where the report will be copied.

#### reportSize

The size of the **report** buffer.

## Return value

#### OE_OK

The report was successfully created.

#### OE_INVALID_PARAMETER

At least one parameter is invalid.

#### OE_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL

The **report** buffer is too small.

#### OE_OUT_OF_MEMORY

Failed to allocate host heap memory.

---
[Index](index.md)

