[Index](index.md)

---
# OE_ECall()

Perform a low-level enclave function call (ECALL).

## Syntax

    OE_Result OE_ECall(
        OE_Enclave *enclave,
        uint32_t func,
        uint64_t argIn,
        uint64_t *argOut);
## Description 

This function performs a low-level enclave function call by invoking the function indicated by the **func** parameter. The enclave defines and registers a corresponding function with the following signature.

```
void (*)(uint64_t argIn, uint64_t* argOut);
```



The meaning of the **argIn** arg **argOut** parameters is defined by the implementer of the function and either may be null.

OpenEnclave uses the low-level ECALL interface to implement internal calls, used by OE_CallEnclave() and OE_TerminateEnclave(). Enclave application developers are encouraged to use **OE_CallEnclave()** instead.

At the software layer, this function sends an **ECALL** message to the enclave and waits for an **ERET** message. Note that the ECALL implementation may call back into the host (an OCALL) before returning.

At the hardware layer, this function executes the **ENCLU.EENTER** instruction to enter the enclave. When the enclave returns from the ECALL, it executes the **ENCLU.EEXIT** instruction exit the enclave and to resume host execution.

Note that the return value only indicates whether the ECALL was called and not whether it was successful. The ECALL implementation must define its own error reporting scheme based on its parameters.



## Parameters

#### func

The number of the function to be called.

#### argsIn

The input argument passed to the function.

#### argsIn

The out argument passed back from the function.

## Return value

#### OE_OK

The function was successful.

#### OE_FAILED

The function failed.

#### OE_INVALID_PARAMETER

One or more parameters is invalid.

#### OE_OUT_OF_THREADS

No enclave threads are available to make the call.

#### OE_UNEXPECTED

An unexpected error occurred.

---
[Index](index.md)

