[Index](index.md)

---
# oe_get_report()

Get a report signed by the enclave platform for use in attestation.

## Syntax

    oe_result_t oe_get_report(oe_enclave_t *enclave, uint32_t options, const uint8_t *reportData, uint32_t reportDataSize, const void *optParams, uint32_t optParamsSize, uint8_t *reportBuffer, uint32_t *reportBufferSize)
## Description 

This function creates a report to be used in local or remote attestation. The report shall contain the data given by the **reportData** parameter.

If the *reportBuffer* is NULL or *reportSize* parameter is too small, this function returns OE_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL.



## Parameters

#### enclave

The instance of the enclave that will generate the report.

#### options

Specifying default value (0) generates a report for local attestation. Specifying OE_REPORT_OPTIONS_REMOTE_ATTESTATION generates a report for remote attestation.

#### reportData

The report data that will be included in the report.

#### reportDataSize

The size of the **reportData** in bytes.

#### optParams

Optional additional parameters needed for the current enclave type. For SGX, this can be sgx_target_info_t for local attestation.

#### optParamsSize

The size of the **optParams** buffer.

#### reportBuffer

The buffer to where the resulting report will be copied.

#### reportBufferSize

The size of the **report** buffer. This is set to the required size of the report buffer on return.

## Return value

#### OE_OK

The report was successfully created.

#### OE_INVALID_PARAMETER

At least one parameter is invalid.

#### OE_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL

The **reportBuffer** buffer is NULL or too small.

#### OE_OUT_OF_MEMORY

Failed to allocate memory.

---
[Index](index.md)

