docs/GettingStartedDocs/Contributors/SimulatorGettingStarted.md, before:

# Getting Started with Open Enclave in Simulator mode

## Platform requirement

- Ubuntu 16.04-LTS 64-bits

## Clone Open Enclave SDK repo from GitHub

Use the following command to download the source code and set the current directory to it.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave.git
cd openenclave
```

This creates a source tree under the directory called openenclave.

## Install project prerequisites

Ansible is required to install the project prerequisites. You can install it by running:
```bash
sudo ./scripts/ansible/install-ansible.sh
```

To install all the Open Enclave prerequisites you can execute the `environment-setup.yml` tasks from `linux/openenclave` Ansible role:

```bash
cd openenclave/scripts/ansible
ansible localhost -m import_role -a "name=linux/openenclave tasks_from=environment-setup.yml" --become --ask-become-pass
```

## Build

To build first create a build directory ("build/" in the example below) and change into it.

```bash
mkdir build/
cd build/
```

Then run `cmake` to configure the build and generate the make files and build:

```bash
cmake -DUSE_LIBSGX=OFF ..
make
```

If you want to compile in parallel you can use the -j argument for make (i.e. `make -j`).

Refer to the [Advanced Build Information](AdvancedBuildInfo.md) documentation for further information.

## Run unittests

After building, run all unit test cases using `ctest` to confirm the SDK is built and working as expected.
Note that to run the tests in simulation mode, the `OE_SIMULATION` environment variable must be set to `1`.

Run the following command from the build directory:

```bash
OE_SIMULATION=1 ctest
```

You will see test logs similar to the following:

```bash
~/openenclave/build$ OE_SIMULATION=1 ctest
Test project /home/youradminusername/openenclave/build
        Start   1: tests/aesm
        1/123 Test   #1: tests/aesm ...............................................................................................................***Skipped   0.00 sec
        Start   2: tests/mem
        2/123 Test   #2: tests/mem ................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
        Start   3: tests/str
        3/123 Test   #3: tests/str ................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
....
....
....
121/123 Test #121: samples ..................................................................................................................   Passed    4.46 sec
        Start 122: tools/oedump
122/123 Test #122: tools/oedump .............................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
        Start 123: oeelf
123/123 Test #123: oeelf ....................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec

93% tests passed, 8 tests failed out of 123

Total Test time (real) =  38.81 sec

The following tests FAILED:
                1 - tests/aesm (Not Run)
                6 - tests/debug-unsigned (Not Run)
                7 - tests/debug-signed (Not Run)
                8 - tests/nodebug-signed (Not Run)
                9 - tests/nodebug-unsigned (Not Run)
                33 - tests/report (Not Run)
                37 - tests/sealKey (Not Run)
        115 - tests/VectorException (Not Run)
Errors while running CTest
```

Some of the tests are skipped (Not Run) by design because the current simulator is not fully featured yet.

A clean pass of the above unitests run is an indication that your Open Enclave setup was successful. You can start playing with those Open Enclave samples after following the instructions in the "Install" section below to configure samples for building,

For more information refer to the [Advanced Test Info](AdvancedTestInfo.md) document.

## Install

 Follow the instructions in the [Install Info](InstallInfo.md) document to install the Open Enclave SDK built above.

Commit message:

Document the requirement for the Ansible scripts
Include a note with the Ansible scripts requirement to all the
docs referencing Ansible.

docs/GettingStartedDocs/Contributors/SimulatorGettingStarted.md, after:

# Getting Started with Open Enclave in Simulator mode

## Platform requirement

- Ubuntu 16.04-LTS 64-bits

## Clone Open Enclave SDK repo from GitHub

Use the following command to download the source code and set the current directory to it.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave.git
cd openenclave
```

This creates a source tree under the directory called openenclave.

## Install project prerequisites

Ansible is required to install the project prerequisites. You can install it by running:
```bash
sudo ./scripts/ansible/install-ansible.sh
```

To install all the Open Enclave prerequisites you can execute the `environment-setup.yml` tasks from `linux/openenclave` Ansible role:

```bash
cd openenclave/scripts/ansible
ansible localhost -m import_role -a "name=linux/openenclave tasks_from=environment-setup.yml" --become --ask-become-pass
```

**Note**: The Ansible scripts only support configuring clean SGX-enabled machines, or any machines already configured with these Ansible scripts.

For instructions to configure non-clean SGX-enabled machines, please follow the [BuildingInADockerContainer.md](/docs/GettingStartedDocs/Contributors/BuildingInADockerContainer.md) documentation.

## Build

To build first create a build directory ("build/" in the example below) and change into it.

```bash
mkdir build/
cd build/
```

Then run `cmake` to configure the build and generate the make files and build:

```bash
cmake -DUSE_LIBSGX=OFF ..
make
```

If you want to compile in parallel you can use the -j argument for make (i.e. `make -j`).

Refer to the [Advanced Build Information](AdvancedBuildInfo.md) documentation for further information.

## Run unittests

After building, run all unit test cases using `ctest` to confirm the SDK is built and working as expected.
Note that to run the tests in simulation mode, the `OE_SIMULATION` environment variable must be set to `1`.

Run the following command from the build directory:

```bash
OE_SIMULATION=1 ctest
```

You will see test logs similar to the following:

```bash
~/openenclave/build$ OE_SIMULATION=1 ctest
Test project /home/youradminusername/openenclave/build
        Start   1: tests/aesm
        1/123 Test   #1: tests/aesm ...............................................................................................................***Skipped   0.00 sec
        Start   2: tests/mem
        2/123 Test   #2: tests/mem ................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
        Start   3: tests/str
        3/123 Test   #3: tests/str ................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
....
....
....
121/123 Test #121: samples ..................................................................................................................   Passed    4.46 sec
        Start 122: tools/oedump
122/123 Test #122: tools/oedump .............................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec
        Start 123: oeelf
123/123 Test #123: oeelf ....................................................................................................................   Passed    0.00 sec

93% tests passed, 8 tests failed out of 123

Total Test time (real) =  38.81 sec

The following tests FAILED:
                1 - tests/aesm (Not Run)
                6 - tests/debug-unsigned (Not Run)
                7 - tests/debug-signed (Not Run)
                8 - tests/nodebug-signed (Not Run)
                9 - tests/nodebug-unsigned (Not Run)
                33 - tests/report (Not Run)
                37 - tests/sealKey (Not Run)
        115 - tests/VectorException (Not Run)
Errors while running CTest
```

Some of the tests are skipped (Not Run) by design because the current simulator is not fully featured yet.

A clean pass of the above unitests run is an indication that your Open Enclave setup was successful. You can start playing with those Open Enclave samples after following the instructions in the "Install" section below to configure samples for building,

For more information refer to the [Advanced Test Info](AdvancedTestInfo.md) document.

## Install

 Follow the instructions in the [Install Info](InstallInfo.md) document to install the Open Enclave SDK built above.
