docs/LibcxxSupport.md, before:

# Open Enclave Support for libcxx

Header | Supported | Comments |
:---:|:---:|:---:|
algorithm | Partial | Supported functions: find(), find_first_of(), count(), mismatch(), equal(), search(), copy(), move(), transform(), replace(), fill(), generate(), remove(), unique(), reverse(), min(), max(), sort(), lower_bound() |
array | Yes | - |
bitset | Partial | Supported functions: base(), bitset(), reset(), set(), to_string(), test() |
cassert | Yes | - |
cctype | Partial | Unsupported functions: isalnum(), isaplha(), iscntrl(), isgraph(), isspace(), isblank(), isprint(), ispunct() |
cfenv | No | - |
charconv | No | - |
chrono | Yes | - |
clocale | Partial | Only basic support for C/POSIX locale |
cmath | Partial | Supported functions: abs(), nan(), exp(), log(), sin(), tan(), asin(), erf(), trunc(), round(), rint(), modf() |
codecvt | Yes | - |
compare | No | - |
complex | Yes | - |
condtion_variable | Yes | - |
csignal | Yes | - |
cstdarg | No | - |
cstddef | Yes | - |
cstdint | Yes | - |
cstdio | Partial | All I/O functions implicitly call out to untrusted host. Unsupported functions: ferror(), vscanf() |
cstdlib | Partial | Unsupported functions: at_quick_exit(), quick_exit() |
cstring | Partial | Unsupported functions: strcpy(), strcat(), strncat(), strchr(), strcspn(), strspn() |
ctime | Yes | All time functions implicitly call out to untrusted host for time values. The resulting time values should not be used for security purposes. |
cwchar | Partial | Unsupported functions: wscanf(), wprintf() |
cwctype | Yes | - |
cuchar | No | - |
exception | Partial | Unsupported functions: throw_with_nested(), rethrow_if_nested() |
functional | No | - |
future | Yes | - |
fstream | Yes | All I/O functions implicitly call out to untrusted host. |
initializer_list | Yes | - |
ios | Partial | Unsupported functions: nounitbuf(), nouppercase(), noshowpos(), noshowpoint(), noshowbase(), noboolalpha() |
istream | Yes | - |
iterator | Partial | Unsupported functions: make_reverse_iterator(), make_move_iterator(), front_inserter(), back_inserter(), inserter(), begin(), cbegin(), rbegin(), crbegin() |
new | Yes | - |
numeric | Partial | Unsupported functions: accumulate(), inner_product(), adjacent_difference(), partial_sum() |
mutex | Yes | - |
optional | Yes | - |
ostream | Partial | Unsupported function: endl() |
queue | Yes | - |
random | Partial | Unsupported functions: generate_canonical() |
ratio | Yes | - |
regex | No | - |
set | Yes | - |
sstream | Yes | - |
stddef | Yes |  - |
streambuf | Yes | - |
system_error | Yes | - |
thread | Partial | Synchronization primitives are not secure across calls to host. Threads are still scheduled by the untrusted host process and an enclave cannot rely on threads making forward progress. Unsupported function: sleep_until(), std::create, std::join and std::detach are not supported on the enclave |
tuple | Partial | Supported function: tie() |
typeinfo | No | - |
type_traits | No | - |
unordered_map | Yes | - |
unordered_set | Yes | - |
utility | Partial | Unsupported function : make_pair() |  
vector | Yes | - |
version | No | - |

Commit message:

Issue #1098 - Update chrono to indicate partial support for time

docs/LibcxxSupport.md, after:

# Open Enclave Support for libcxx

Header | Supported | Comments |
:---:|:---:|:---:|
algorithm | Partial | Supported functions: find(), find_first_of(), count(), mismatch(), equal(), search(), copy(), move(), transform(), replace(), fill(), generate(), remove(), unique(), reverse(), min(), max(), sort(), lower_bound() |
array | Yes | - |
bitset | Partial | Supported functions: base(), bitset(), reset(), set(), to_string(), test() |
cassert | Yes | - |
cctype | Partial | Unsupported functions: isalnum(), isaplha(), iscntrl(), isgraph(), isspace(), isblank(), isprint(), ispunct() |
cfenv | No | - |
charconv | No | - |
chrono | Partial | - | All time functions implicitly call out to untrusted host for time values. The resulting time values should not be used for security purposes. Supported functions: time(), gettimeofday(), clock_gettime(), nanosleep(). Please note that clock_gettime() only supports CLOCK_REALTIME |
clocale | Partial | Only basic support for C/POSIX locale |
cmath | Partial | Supported functions: abs(), nan(), exp(), log(), sin(), tan(), asin(), erf(), trunc(), round(), rint(), modf() |
codecvt | Yes | - |
compare | No | - |
complex | Yes | - |
condition_variable | Yes | - |
csignal | Yes | - |
cstdarg | No | - |
cstddef | Yes | - |
cstdint | Yes | - |
cstdio | Partial | All I/O functions implicitly call out to untrusted host. Unsupported functions: ferror(), vscanf() |
cstdlib | Partial | Unsupported functions: at_quick_exit(), quick_exit() |
cstring | Partial | Unsupported functions: strcpy(), strcat(), strncat(), strchr(), strcspn(), strspn() |
ctime | Yes | All time functions implicitly call out to untrusted host for time values. The resulting time values should not be used for security purposes. Supported functions: time(), gettimeofday(), clock_gettime(), nanosleep(). Please note that clock_gettime() only supports CLOCK_REALTIME |
cwchar | Partial | Unsupported functions: wscanf(), wprintf() |
cwctype | Yes | - |
cuchar | No | - |
exception | Partial | Unsupported functions: throw_with_nested(), rethrow_if_nested() |
functional | No | - |
future | Yes | - |
fstream | Yes | All I/O functions implicitly call out to untrusted host. |
initializer_list | Yes | - |
ios | Partial | Unsupported functions: nounitbuf(), nouppercase(), noshowpos(), noshowpoint(), noshowbase(), noboolalpha() |
istream | Yes | - |
iterator | Partial | Unsupported functions: make_reverse_iterator(), make_move_iterator(), front_inserter(), back_inserter(), inserter(), begin(), cbegin(), rbegin(), crbegin() |
new | Yes | - |
numeric | Partial | Unsupported functions: accumulate(), inner_product(), adjacent_difference(), partial_sum() |
mutex | Yes | - |
optional | Yes | - |
ostream | Partial | Unsupported function: endl() |
queue | Yes | - |
random | Partial | Unsupported functions: generate_canonical() |
ratio | Yes | - |
regex | No | - |
set | Yes | - |
sstream | Yes | - |
stddef | Yes |  - |
streambuf | Yes | - |
system_error | Yes | - |
thread | Partial | Synchronization primitives are not secure across calls to host. Threads are still scheduled by the untrusted host process and an enclave cannot rely on threads making forward progress. Unsupported function: sleep_until(), std::create, std::join and std::detach are not supported on the enclave |
tuple | Partial | Supported function: tie() |
typeinfo | No | - |
type_traits | No | - |
unordered_map | Yes | - |
unordered_set | Yes | - |
utility | Partial | Unsupported function : make_pair() |  
vector | Yes | - |
version | No | - |
