samples/attested_tls/README.md, before:

## Prerequisites
 The audience is assumed to be familiar:
 [What is an Attested TLS channel](AttestedTLSREADME.md#what-is-an-attested-tls-channel)

# The attested_tls sample

It has the following properties:

- Demonstrates attested TLS feature 
  - between two enclaves
  - between an enclave application and a non enclave application
- Use of mbedTLS within enclaves for TLS
- Enclave APIs used:
  - oe_generate_attestation_certificate
  - oe_free_attestation_certificate
  - oe_verify_attestation_certificate

**Note: Currently this sample only works on SGX-FLC systems.** The underlying SGX library support for end-to-end remote attestation is required but available only on SGX-FLC system. There is no plan to back port those libraries to either SGX1 system or software emulator.

## Overall Sample Configuration

In first part of this sample, there are two enclave applications in this sample: one for hosting an TLS client inside an enclave and the other one for an TLS server.

 ![Attested TLS channel between two enclaves](tls_between_enclaves.png)

In the 2nd part of this sample, there is one regular application functioning as a non-enclave TLS client and an enclave application
instantiating an enclave which hosts an TLS server. 

 ![Attested TLS channel between a non enclave application and an enclave](tls_between_non_enclave_enclave.png)

Note: Both of them can run on the same machine or separate machines.

### Server application
  - Host part (tls_server_host)
    - Instantiate an enclave before transitioning the control into the enclave via an ecall.
  - Encalve (tls_server_enclave.signed)
    - Calls oe_generate_attestation_certificate to genreate an certificate
    - Use Mbedtls API to configure an TLS server after configuring above certificate as the server's certificate
    - Launch a TLS server and wait for client connection request
    - Read client payalod and reply with server payload
  - How to launch a server instance
```
../server/host/tls_server_host ../server/enc/tls_server_enc.signed -port:12341
```
### Enclave Client application
  - Host part (tls_client_host)
    - Instantiate an enclave before transitioning the control into the enclave via an ecall.
  - Encalve (tls_client_enclave.signed)
    - Calls oe_generate_attestation_certificate to genreate an certificate
    - Use Mbedtls API to configure an TLS server after configuring above certificate as the server's certificate
    - Launch a TLS server and wait for client connection request
    - Read client payalod and reply with server payload
  - How to launch a client instance
```
../client/host/tls_client_host ../client/enc/tls_client_enclave.signed -server:localhost -port:12341
```

### Non-enclave Client application
 - Connect to server port via socket
 - Use OpenSSL API to configure a TLS client
 - Call oe_verify_attestation_certificate to validate server's certificate
 - Send client payload and wait for server's payload

```
	../client/tls_client -server:localhost -port:12341
```

## Build and run

You can go build from the sample's root directory or go to tls_between_enclaves or ls_between_non_enclave_enclave subdirectory to build each sub-sample

### GNU Make

```bash
cd attested_tls
make build
make run
```

Commit message:

Added CMake build support for attested_tls samples

samples/attested_tls/README.md, after:

## Prerequisites
 The audience is assumed to be familiar:
 [What is an Attested TLS channel](AttestedTLSREADME.md#what-is-an-attested-tls-channel)

# The attested_tls sample

It has the following properties:

- Demonstrates attested TLS feature 
  - between two enclaves
  - between an enclave application and a non enclave application
- Use of mbedTLS within enclaves for TLS
- Enclave APIs used:
  - oe_generate_attestation_certificate
  - oe_free_attestation_certificate
  - oe_verify_attestation_certificate

**Note: Currently this sample only works on SGX-FLC systems.** The underlying SGX library support for end-to-end remote attestation is required but available only on SGX-FLC system. There is no plan to back port those libraries to either SGX1 system or software emulator.

## Overall Sample Configuration

In first part of this sample, there are two enclave applications in this sample: one for hosting an TLS client inside an enclave and the other one for an TLS server.

 ![Attested TLS channel between two enclaves](tls_between_enclaves.png)

In the 2nd part of this sample, there is one regular application functioning as a non-enclave TLS client and an enclave application
instantiating an enclave which hosts an TLS server. 

 ![Attested TLS channel between a non enclave application and an enclave](tls_between_non_enclave_enclave.png)

Note: Both of them can run on the same machine or separate machines.

### Server application
  - Host part (tls_server_host)
    - Instantiate an enclave before transitioning the control into the enclave via an ecall.
  - Encalve (tls_server_enclave.signed)
    - Calls oe_generate_attestation_certificate to genreate an certificate
    - Use Mbedtls API to configure an TLS server after configuring above certificate as the server's certificate
    - Launch a TLS server and wait for client connection request
    - Read client payalod and reply with server payload
  - How to launch a server instance
```
../server/host/tls_server_host ../server/enc/tls_server_enc.signed -port:12341
```
### Enclave Client application
  - Host part (tls_client_host)
    - Instantiate an enclave before transitioning the control into the enclave via an ecall.
  - Encalve (tls_client_enclave.signed)
    - Calls oe_generate_attestation_certificate to genreate an certificate
    - Use Mbedtls API to configure an TLS server after configuring above certificate as the server's certificate
    - Launch a TLS server and wait for client connection request
    - Read client payalod and reply with server payload
  - How to launch a client instance
```
../client/host/tls_client_host ../client/enc/tls_client_enclave.signed -server:localhost -port:12341
```

### Non-enclave Client application
 - Connect to server port via socket
 - Use OpenSSL API to configure a TLS client
 - Call oe_verify_attestation_certificate to validate server's certificate
 - Send client payload and wait for server's payload

```
../client/tls_non_enc_client -server:localhost -port:12341
```

## Build and run

Note that there are two different build systems supported, one using GNU Make and
`pkg-config`, the other using CMake.

You can go build from the sample's root directory or go to tls_between_enclaves or tls_between_non_enclave_enclave subdirectory to build each sub-sample

### GNU Make

```bash
cd attested_tls
make
make run
```

### CMake

This uses the CMake package provided by the Open Enclave SDK.

```bash
cd attested_tls
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make run
```
